Variables

A variable is a symbol in a program that stands for a value.  The value of a
variable can be changed while the program is running by using the assignment
operator "=" or things like that.  In Javascript, any variable can hold a
value of any type, such as an integer, string, or function.  In some other
languages, a variable has a type and this restricts the type of values it can
have.

Strings

A string is a value that represents text, consisting of a sequence of
characters.  A string value can be placed directly in Javascript code by
enclosing it with single quotes to form a string literal.  Strings support all
kinds of useful operations.  For example, you can concatenate two strings
using the + operator.

Functions

A function is a block of program code that may perform some computation and
return a value.  Functions take zero or more arguments, which are variables
that only exist within the body of the function.  This provides a basic and
useful means of organizing functionality and re-using code within a larger
project.

if statements

"if" is a kind of control-flow statement.  Ordinarily, the computer will
run one statement after another, in the order that they appear inside a .js
file or are fed into the node REPL.  Control-flow statements are exceptions to
this.  "if" is the most basic example.  When "if" is given an expression that
doesn't evaluate as true, then the block that follows it is skipped.  There
may be an "else" block afterwards, which is skipped whenever the "if" block
was not.

Boolean values

Boolean is a type consisting of the values true and false.  Do not confuse
these with the strings "true" and "false"; they are their own type.  They are
most commonly used in conjunction with control-flow statements such as "if".
Comparison operators such as "<", "<=", "==", and "===" return Boolean values
so that they are convenient to use with control-flow statements.  When "if" is
used with values of other types, Javascript will first coerce them to values
of Boolean type.  It is important to understand how these rules work, because
they can be surprising.
